In this lecture, we are going to quickly hide the model.
At the moment I'm logged in.
There are two noticeable problems with the current implementation of our authentication model.
Firstly, the header tools block asks the user to log in.
That doesn't seem right.
The header tools should acknowledge the user is logged in.
Secondly, the modal will continue to appear if we click on the link the modal pops up.
It shouldn't be possible to create a new account or log in.
Both problems can be resolved by checking the user's current authentication status if they're logged
in.
We are going to greet the user.
As for the modal, it will be completely invisible.
The link should not open a modal.
For this lecture, we are going to start by hiding the modal in your editor.
Open the off modal dot php file.
At the top of the function.
Add a conditional statements.
The condition will be the is user logged in function.
This function is defined by WordPress.
It will check the user's current authentication if the user is logged in.
This function returns true inside the block.
Lets return an empty string.
By returning an empty string, the modal will never appear.
It doesn't matter if there are links with the open modal class.
Another thing worth mentioning is the location of this condition.
We're not waiting to create a buffer.
It's not necessary to return an empty string.
Let's test our code by refreshing the page.
If we click on the link, the modal never appears.
We've fixed the second problem of our block.
However, the links are still displaying the wrong text.
In addition, there's another problem that's hidden from us in the browser.
Open the console panel of the developer tools.
After clicking on the link, an error gets thrown by the console.
Despite not adding the modal, the open modal class is still applied to the link we need to remove this
link to, otherwise the messages will continue to appear in the console.
Let's modify the header tools block by opening the header tools php file.
At the top of the function create a variable called user.
The value will be the WP gets current user function.
We're not going to be using the is user logged in function.
We need more than a boolean value inside the block.
The user's name should be rendered on the page.
The WP get current user function will check if the user is logged in.
The value returned by this function will be an object of the user's info.
But what if they're not logged in?
The object returned by this function has a method for verifying the user's authentication.
We can take advantage of this function before reading their data.
Let me show you an example below.
The user variable create a variable called name.
The value will be the following user exists.
Question mark user.
Log in.
Colon sign in.
In this example, we're using a ternary operator before assigning a value to the variable.
The exists method will check if the user object has information.
If there is a user, this method returns true.
In this case, we can set the variable to the name from the object by accessing the user log in property.
Otherwise we're setting the variable to static text to encourage the user to log in.
Let's create one more variable called open class.
The value for this variable will be the following user exists.
Question mark.
Empty string colon.
Open modal.
The class will be stored in a variable.
We're not going to statically render the class.
It should be dynamic.
Let's update our template to output this information inside the template.
Search for an anchor element with a class called Sign in link.
On this element.
We can replace the open modal class with the open class variable.
Next search for a div tag with a class called Sign in text.
Replace the static text with the name variable.
In both examples we are entering PvP mode to echo the variables values.
After making those changes, let's refresh the page.
This time things are different.
I'm still logged into the application.
The header tools block will display my name on the page.
Furthermore, the link does not throw errors after clicking on it.
That's perfect.
We've successfully updated the blocks to behave correctly.
You can log out to test the opposite behavior.
In the next lecture, let's discuss some final topics.